Update the section on Cypher subqueries: images and text (#182)
neo4j/docs-getting-started: modules/ROOT/pages/cypher-intro/subqueries.adoc

[[neo4j-subqueries]]
= Subqueries
:tags: cypher, queries, graph-queries, subqueries, compare-queries
:description: Building on the previous Cypher guides, this guide shows how to write subqueries.
:page-ad-overline-link: https://graphacademy.neo4j.com/?ref=guides
:page-ad-overline: Neo4j GraphAcademy
:page-ad-title: Cypher Fundamentals
:page-ad-description: Learn Cypher in this free, hands-on course
:page-ad-link: https://graphacademy.neo4j.com/?ref=guides
:page-ad-underline-role: button
:page-ad-underline: Learn more

[[recap]]
== Recap our example graph

> All of our code examples will continue with the graph example we have been using before, but include some more data for our later queries.

Reviewer: Maybe I am missing something, but the examples on the previous pages are about actors and movies? Maybe it would be a good idea to be explicit here again about what data set is used (including repeating the create query)

Author: Unfortunately, there was no create query for this graph. I had only an image. But I think you're right. It would be useful to have a Cypher create query for this data. I recreated this database to check all the queries here and in other guides, so I'll try to write the create query in the next PR.

Below is an image of the new graph, a network of people, the companies they work for, and the technologies they like.

> We have added one more `Person` node (blue) who `WORKS_FOR` a `Company` node (red) and `LIKES` a `Technology` (green) node.

Reviewer: Could you be explicit about which node you have added?

Author: Good idea!

To recap, each person could also have multiple `IS_FRIENDS_WITH` relationships to other people.

.Network of people, companies they work for, and technologies they like
image::people-technologies-graph-arr1.svg[role="popup-link"]

[[cypher-filtering]]
== An introduction to subqueries

Subqueries were introduced in Neo4j v4.0.

> At the time Neo4j offers the following types of subqueries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following types of subqueries are possible in Neo4j:
```

* link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/expressions/#existential-subqueries[`EXISTS` subquery expression]
* link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/expressions/#count-subqueries[`COUNT` subquery expression]
* link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/clauses/call-subquery/[`CALL {...}` subquery clause]
* link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/clauses/call-subquery/#subquery-call-in-transactions[`CALL {...} IN TRANSACTIONS` subquery clause]

> In this section, `EXISTS`, `COUNT`, and `CALL {...}` subqueries are covered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `EXISTS`, `COUNT`, and `CALL {...}` subqueries are covered in this section.
```

> To learn more about using `CALL {...} IN TRANSACTIONS`, see code examples in the following tutorials on how to import CSV data into Neo4j instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about using `CALL {...} IN TRANSACTIONS`, see the code examples in the following tutorials on how to import CSV data into a Neo4j instance:
```

* xref:cypher-intro/load-csv.adoc#call-in-transactions[_Tutorial: Import data_]
* xref:data-import/csv-import.adoc#optimizing-load-csv[_Importing CSV data into Neo4j_]

[[cypher-subqueries]]
== Cypher subqueries

A subquery is a set of Cypher statements that execute within their own scope.
A subquery is typically called from an outer enclosing query.

Here are some important things to know about a subquery:

* A subquery returns values referred to by the variables in the `RETURN` clause.

* A subquery cannot return variables with the same name used in the enclosing query.

* You must explicitly pass in variables from the enclosing query to a subquery.

> As you see, subqueries are demarcated by the braces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subqueries are demarcated by braces (`{ }`).
```

RETURN p, r, friend
----

> If you run this query in the Neo4j Browser, the following graph is returned:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run this query in Neo4j Browser, the following graph is returned:
```

RETURN p, r, friend
----

You will get the same result, which is nice, but so far all you've achieved is the same thing with more code!

> Let's next write a subquery that does more powerful filtering than what you can achieve with the `WHERE` clause or `exists` function alone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, let's write a subquery that filters more powerfully than what can be achieved with the `WHERE` clause or the `exists` function alone.
```

Assume that: 

> * You want to find people who work for a company which name starts with 'Company' and like at least one technology that's liked by three or more people.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You want to find people who work for a company whose name starts with 'Company' and who like at least one technology that's liked by three or more people.
```

                         ^
----

> You can find people that like a technology, but you cannot check that at least three people like that technology as well, because the variable `t` isn't in the scope of the `WHERE` clause.

Reviewer: "like a technology" is a bit strange. Could it be something like "like a specific type of technology?"
```suggestion
You can find people that like a technology, but you cannot check that at least three other people like that technology as well, because the variable `t` isn't in the scope of the `WHERE` clause.
```

| "Diana"   | "CompanyX"
|===

If you recall the graph visualisation from the start of this guide, *Ryan* is the only other person who works for a company which name starts with 'Company'.

> He's been filtered out in this query because the only `Technology` that he likes is *Python*, and there aren't three people who like Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He's been filtered out in this query because the only `Technology` that he likes is *Python*, and there aren't three other people who like Python.
```

[[result-returning-subqueries]]
== Result returning subqueries

So far you have learnt how to use subqueries to filter out results, but this doesn't fully show their power.
You can also use subqueries to return results as well.

Let's say you want to write a query that finds people who like Java or have more than one friend.

> Apart from that you want to return the results ordered by date of birth in descending order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from that, you want to return the results ordered by date of birth in descending order.
```

> You can get some of the way there using the `UNION` clause and `COUNT` subquery expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be partially achieved using the `UNION` clause and `COUNT` subquery expression:
```

| "John"     | 1985-04-04
|===

> This approach works, but it's more difficult to write, and you have to keep passing through parts of state to the next part of the query.

Reviewer: what does "parts of state" mean here? It may be correct, but not so clear to me what it refers to.

Author: Good spot! I suppose it should be 'statement' not 'state'. And here is a question: what is a statement in Cypher? What is a query?  I think I saw definitions somewhere, but I don't remember where exactly it was.

| "John"     | 1985-04-04
|===

> You could extend our query further to return the technologies that these people like, and the friends that they have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could extend the query further to return the technologies that these people like, and the friends that they have.
```

| 1985-04-04 | 1988-08-08
|===

== Summary

> You have seen how to use the `EXISTS {}` subquery expression to write complex filtering patterns and the `CALL {}` clause to execute result returning subqueries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have seen how to use the `EXISTS {}` subquery expression to write complex filtering patterns and the `CALL {}` clause to execute result-returning subqueries.
```
